---
title: 'Importance of online privacy'
date: '2023-06-05'
---

Now more than ever the Internet is intertwined into our everyday lives. Most people have a phone which they use morning to evening, most people have a PC or laptop, even most of recent years' cars feature a 'smart console' with celular capabilities. Beyond the devices, social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter are insanely popular with [around 40% of the population](https://www.businessinsider.com/meta-facebook-apps-used-half-world-population-earnings-mark-zuckerberg-2023-7?r=US&IR=T) using Facebook. Other than the cost of hardware used to access these services, they are absolutely free, a logical question arises, with tech salaries being so competitive, where do companies get the money to develop their 'free' products? The answer, almost always, is by collecting user data to be sold to a variety of customers, from advertisers to government agencies. Data harvesting has become so normalised that most people click throught the prompt of 'allow personalised ads' without second thought. 


### Why should I care ?
On an individual event level it might not seem troublesome, however the more and more information is recorded, stored, and analysed by private companies and governments with the possibility to be used against you, the more it should become troublesome. While many people have the stance of 'if you have nothing to hide you have nothing to fear' it is [quite flawed](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=998565&) and should be more 'am I willing to share every aspect of my life to the most intimate detail with anybody on the street?' Are you okay with information such as:

- Messages with your therapist
- Texts with your partner
- Complete internet search history

to be collected and stored indefinitely and to fall into the hands of:

- Your boss
- Your neighbours 
- A criminal

Furthermore, of a societal level such mass data allow a government to:
- Blackmail/Coerce individuals (including positions of power)
- Prosecute individuals based on their beliefs
- Exploit insider  information for financial gain

Whether or not that bothers you right now, think about whichever entity *will* own that information, as from the moment its collected it will be stored indefinitely.



